# Decklist Compendium

This page serves a a repository of Doomsday decklists past and present. Those
under 'Current Decklists' are considered stock lists of the currently playable
Doomsday variants, and we'll do our best to keep them up to date. The
'Historical Decklists' section are examples of lists from the past. Most are
unplayable due to bannings, while some are still legal but have been obviated by
new printings.

## Current Decklists

<div deckfile="FrenzyDoomsday.json" />

This is the most "proven" modern doomsday deck. Multiple 5-0's and 1k top8's, as
well as a MTGO Challenge top8 to its name. It is also moderately easier to play
than lists of the past. This is probably the best place to start for beginners.

<div deckfile="EchoDoomsday.json" />

A new development utilizing some powerful 2019 cards. Though it has yet to
acieve a notable result, testing indicates that it is comparable in winrate to
the Frenzy list. It is closer in playstyle to the lists of yore, so if you're
looking for something more challenging or nostalgic that doesn't sacrifice
power, try this list.

## Historical Decklists

<div deckfile="Draw4Doomsday.json" />

A list from just after the Gitaxian Probe ban, but before Experimental Frenzy.
It looks quite similar to the Echo list, and in fact served as a source of
inspiration to the construction of that list.

<div deckfile="PostSDTDoomsday.json" />

After the ban of Sensei's Divining Top, the deck changed it's shape a little
bit. The number of Lotus Petals was increased to pump up the speed, since
without Top the ability to grind was diminished. Conjurer's Bauble saw it's
first appearance as a "stored draw" like Top was, and as a way to loop cards
back into Doomsday piles.

<div deckfile="SDTDoomsday.json" />

The classic list, considered by many to be the most playable form of the deck.
It was built to beat the Miracles decks of the day, and the maindeck Decays and
4x Top helped it play a long game and muscle through Counterbalance. Shelldock
Isle and Emrakul, Xantid Swarms, and more Decays gave it a strong sideboard plan
against the slow blue decks. RIP Sensei's Divining Top.

<div deckfile="EarlyDoomsday.json" />

This is the earliest Doomsday list I could find. There are some clear
similarities with the classic list but also some weird ANT-like aspect mixed in.
It looks very unrefined, but you can see a lot of the hallmarks of later storm
decks. An interesting piece of history but not remotely playable, and not only
because of the banned cards.
