---
title: Pass-the-Turn Piles
---

First of all, why would you ever want to cast Doomsday and then pass the turn?
The answer is simple: when you can't win otherwise. Pass the turn piles help out
when you can't win right now, because you lack mana and/or draw effects, but you
can't afford to wait much longer either. It should be clear that pass the turn
piles are practically never a very desirable plan. When you make decisions like
whether to keep a hand or not, or when to cast your cantrips, going for a pass
the turn pile should serve as a last resort. The risks involved in paying half
your life rounded up and passing the turn are not to be underestimated.

In Legacy, discard is one of the most common strategies for disrupting your
opponents plan. Therefore, many decks try to use discard to prevent us from
winning the game before they do. One of the main uses of pass the turn piles is
to become immune to discard. If you can't win right now because you still lack
some resources, but you can cast Doomsday and dump other cards, like Lion's Eye
Diamond or Conjurer's Bauble on the table, you may be able to setup a win for
next turn without giving your opponent another window to discard any of your
precious cards.

In some other (uncommon) situations building a pass the turn pile may be your
best shot at winning the game any time soon. For example, when you lack a draw
effect to draw in to your pile, but have everything else, pass the turn piles
may be an out. How you managed to end up in this situation is a good question,
and when you find yourself making a pass-the-turn pile you may want to ask
yourself if you could have played such that you could go off all in one turn.
But there certainly are times when a pass-the-turn pile is correct, or your only
out.

There is some good reason that you are going for a pass the turn pile rather
than winning this turn, either you lack resources or you have to fight through
some form of hate. Let's first talk about building pass the turn piles because
we lack resources, such as a draw effect or mana. We'll focus on playing
around/through hate later.

Consider the following (intentionally) bad example: you cast Doomsday, but lack
a draw effect and therefore build:

> Empty Hand - UU (2) - 5 Storm

<pile>{{!IU}} {{!LED}} {{!LED}} {{!SW}} {{!BW}}</pile>

Next turn, for only UU you can draw and cast Ideas Unbound, followed by 2 Lion's
Eye Diamonds, then cycle Street Wraith into Burning Wish for Tendrils of Agony
for 5 storm. Although the mana cost of this procedure is very low, the storm
count is seriously lacking. Fortunately, it's easy to increase the storm count
from this point on. If you have 1 more mana you can build IU, LED, SW, CB, BW as
a pile for 6 storm for example. If you have another mana, you can turn that SW
into a different cantrip. Together with some cards in hand to play out and some
self-inflicted damage from your opponent's fetchlands, that might just be
enough.

There are however some more reliable ways of killing the opponent after passing
the turn. We'll look at pass the turn piles with Lab Maniac, how the Infernal
Contract list can win with storm, and some alternative methods.

## Pass the turn piles with Laboratory Maniac

Laboratory Maniac enables some very mana efficient pass the turn piles that may
offer an out in situations where no other lethal pile would. When you have no
other cards in hand or play, for example because you've used Lion's Eye Diamond
to pay for Doomsday, the simplest piles are:

> 1UU (3) - 2 life

<pile>{{!IU}} {{!CB}} {{!LED}} {{!SW}} {{!LM}}</pile>

> BBB+B/U (4)

<pile>{{!IC}} {{!DR}} {{!LP}} {{!CB}} {{!LM}}</pile>

Note that, as mentioned in the section on Lab Maniac, playing IC and LM in the
same list is uncommon, but the pile is presented for the sake of clarity and
completeness.

The following piles are even cheaper for when you have an extra draw effect or a
LED.

> LED in hand - B, 2 life

<pile>{{!SW}} {{!IU}} {{!CB}} {{!DR}} {{!LM}}</pile>

> SW in hand - B, 2 life

<pile>{{!LED}} {{!IU}} {{!DR}} {{!CB}} {{!LM}}</pile>

> SW in hand - 1, 4 life

<pile>{{!LED}} {{!IU}} {{!LP}} {{!SW}} {{!LM}}</pile>

> CB in play - B

<pile>{{!LED}} {{!IU}} {{!DR}} {{!CB}} {{!LM}}</pile>

Instead of using Lion's Eye Diamond to pay for Ideas Unbound we can also include
some other card into the pile, to for example play through some card in the
opponent's hand. The mana cost for including another card depends on the
location in the pile. There's also a trade-off between life and mana cost.

> SW in hand - 2UUB, 4 life

<pile>{{!Dur}} {{!IU}} {{!LP}} {{!SW}} {{!LM}}</pile>

> SW in hand - 2UUU, 4 life

<pile>{{!CoV}} {{!IU}} {{!LP}} {{!SW}} {{!LM}}</pile>

> LED available - 2U, 4 life

<pile>{{!SW}} {{!IU}} {{!Cov}} {{!SW}} {{!LM}}</pile>

Naturally the Duress or Chain of Vapor can be swapped for another spell you'd
like to cast, modifying cost of the pile appropriately.

For all Laboratory Maniac pass the turn piles, you can replace the card that
draws from an empty library in the Doomsday pile with Chromatic Sphere and
increase the mana cost accordingly.

## Pass the Turn Piles with Infernal Contract

Since the IC-based decklist generally doesn't play Laboratory Maniac, it needs
to generate a lethal Storm count. This is doable but tends to be mana hungry.
We'll address the simplest and most common piles here. These piles don't come up
all that often but it's worth being aware of them.

> Empty hand, 5 lands on board - BBBB1 - 5 Storm + 6 Storm

<pile>{{!IC}} {{!RoF}} {{!CR}} {{!CB}} {{!ToA}}</pile>

This pile works by using CB to cast ToA twice, using CB to rebuy it. To do it
from no cards in hand requires a ton of lands on board, as well as Rain of Filth
which not every list plays. However, with some mana producers in hand the
onboard requirements are easier to manage.

> DR, LED in hand - 1B - 6 Storm + 7 Storm

<pile>{{!IC}} {{!LED}} {{!DR}} {{!CB}} {{!ToA}}</pile>

If you have Past in Flames in the sideboard you can use that as an engine to
generate lethal storm.

> DR in hand - BBRR - 10 Storm

<pile>{{!IC}} {{!DR}} {{!DR}} {{!BW}} {{!ToA}}</pile>

This pile Doesn't require the use of an artifact meaning it can beat a Null Rod
or a Phyrexian Revoker, although having an LED available will make producing RR
easier.

You can also use Burning wish to up your storm count, since each Wish in the
pile effectively counts as 2 spells.

> 1BBBRR (6) - 7 storm

<pile>{{!BW}} {{!LED}} {{!LED}} {{!LP}} {{!BW}}</pile>

The first BW finds IC in the sideboard to draw the rest of the pile. The second
burning wish fetches ToA. A ritual or LED left in hand will help boost storm
count and make the mana cost easier.

## Summary

1. You don't always have to win the turn you cast Doomsday
2. Pass the turn piles are effective when low on a resource (cards or mana, but
   not both)
3. PTT piles leave youo susceptible to disruption
4. There are tricks you can use to ensure you can build up enough storm so you
   don't always have to rely on LM

